# Automatic-Differentiation

We began this project by copying the header from previous Haskell assignments. Some of our data types were copied over from previous assignments as well. But, our ?ValueHat?, ?EnvHat?, and ?Derivative? were all new. We then read over the Automatic Differentiation notes and began our implementation. 

After we began, the Forward Automatic Differentiation was more intuitive than we had expected, but implementing the testing infrastructure was more challenging than we had anticipated. The Reverse Automatic Differentiation was very challenging, and we struggled to understand the concept and theory behind it. After much research and discussion with Dr. Darais, we understood Reverse Automatic Differentiation and were able to work out examples on paper. However, we still had a lot of trouble implementing it in Haskell.

In order to begin we read various articles, blog posts, and Wikipedia pages regarding Forward Automatic Differentiation. We created a GitHub repository so that we could better collaborate on this project. We met multiple times before the due date and attended office hours to work on the project, presentation and write up. During these times we worked out multiple examples by hand and experimented with Haskell implementations that we later deleted.

We learned a lot during this project. In particular, we learned how important it is to think carefully about how the data types will be used before making them. It ended up being more effective to plan the code and the function, to create the data types, and then to write the function rather than creating the data types first. In addition, we ended up learning how the testing infrastructure was organized. We also learned more about differentiation; we had both forgotten how chain rule worked, and it was a great review of derivatives. We also have a deeper understanding of composite functions and their use; this understanding stemmed from learning about reverse automatic differentiation.

We successfully implemented Forward Automatic Differentiation for the following expressions: Double, Var, Plus, Times, Sin, Cos, and Let. We worked with Dr. Darais to implement the testing infrastructure in the Forward Automatic Differentiation Haskell file. We created five test cases, which execute when the script is run from the command line. In order to successfully implement the function, we created the following datas and types: Variable (string), Value (double), Derivative (double), ValueHat (Value Derivative), EnvHat (Map String ValueHat), and Expr.

Reverse Automatic Differentation: ???